⛏  EXCAVATION & SITE PREPARATION
Complete SEO Website Strategy Guide
Barrie · Orillia · Simcoe County · Wasaga Beach · Innisfil & Area



1.  Competitor Landscape Analysis
Based on research of active excavation and site preparation companies in your target geography, here is a summary of your top competitors and the gaps you can exploit.

Key Competitors Identified
Competitor
Weaknesses / Your Opportunity
Heritage Excavation (Barrie)
Dated website, no individual service landing pages, weak long-tail targeting, no blog/content strategy
Matthews Construction & Excavation
Good keyword coverage but thin page copy, minimal location-specific pages, no vacuum excavation service
Eisses Brothers Excavating (est. 1973)
Legacy brand but very outdated site (2015), no structured data, poor mobile UX
Rumball Excavation & Haulage
Good service area list but zero content depth, no meta descriptions, no schema markup
G. Priest Services (Minesing)
Strong equipment list but no conversion CTAs, no pool excavation, no hydro/vacuum service
Brock Excavation
Heavy focus on septic — excavation/grading is secondary; limited commercial content
True North Diggers
Small-scale residential only, no commercial/civil scope, weak on subdivision/grading keywords
KJ Excavating
Almost no website content, no service descriptions, easy to outrank
Brentwood C Excavation (Wasaga Beach)
Word-of-mouth only business, almost no digital presence — massive gap in Wasaga Beach market
JAM Contracting (Collingwood area)
Limited to Wasaga/Collingwood, not targeting Barrie or Innisfil aggressively


🔑 KEY INSIGHT
No competitor in this market runs dedicated landing pages for each service + each city combination. That is your single biggest opportunity. A page for 'Pool Excavation Barrie', 'Hydro Excavation Orillia', 'Lot Grading Innisfil' etc. can dominate local search with relatively modest effort.




2.  Website Page Architecture (URL Structure)
Build your site with a clear silo structure: one main Excavation & Site Preparation hub page, individual service pages, and location-specific pages. This tells Google exactly what you do and where.

Recommended URL Structure
URL / Page
Target Purpose
/excavation-site-preparation/
Main hub — targets all primary keywords
/excavation-site-preparation/residential-commercial-excavation/
Residential & Commercial Excavation service page
/excavation-site-preparation/grading-new-subdivisions/
Subdivision grading, road beds, storm systems
/excavation-site-preparation/custom-home-grading/
Complex/sloped grading for custom home builds
/excavation-site-preparation/pool-excavation/
Pool excavation & digging
/excavation-site-preparation/trenching-utilities/
Utility/water/sanitary line trenching
/excavation-site-preparation/commercial-site-preparation/
Residential, commercial & multi-unit site prep
/excavation-site-preparation/lot-land-clearing/
Tree/stump/debris removal, site stripping
/excavation-site-preparation/hydro-vacuum-excavation/
Vacuum/hydrovac — utility-safe excavation
/excavation-site-preparation/heavy-civil-commercial/
Industrial parks, large commercial developments
/excavation-site-preparation/backfilling-compaction/
Backfill & compaction services
/excavation-site-preparation/lot-grading-final-subgrade/
Final grade & subgrade for lot compliance
/service-areas/barrie/
Location page: Barrie
/service-areas/orillia/
Location page: Orillia
/service-areas/wasaga-beach/
Location page: Wasaga Beach
/service-areas/innisfil/
Location page: Innisfil
/service-areas/simcoe-county/
Location page: Simcoe County (hub)




3.  Meta Titles & Descriptions (Copy-Ready)
These are ready to paste into your CMS. Keep titles under 60 characters; descriptions under 160. Every page needs unique meta data.

Main Hub Page — Excavation & Site Preparation
META TITLE
Excavation & Site Preparation Barrie | Simcoe County Contractor


META DESCRIPTION
Expert excavation & site preparation across Barrie, Orillia, Wasaga Beach, Innisfil & Simcoe County. Grading, clearing, trenching, pool digging, hydrovac & more. Free estimates.


Residential & Commercial Excavation
META TITLE
Residential & Commercial Excavation Barrie | All Depths & Scales


META DESCRIPTION
Licensed excavation contractor serving Barrie, Orillia & Simcoe County. Residential foundations, commercial builds, basement digs & more. All depths. Free quote.


Subdivision Grading
META TITLE
Grading for New Subdivisions Barrie | Road Beds & Storm Systems


META DESCRIPTION
Multi-lot subdivision grading, road bed preparation & storm system earthworks across Simcoe County. Experienced heavy equipment operators. Call for project pricing.


Pool Excavation
META TITLE
Pool Excavation Barrie | Custom Pool Digging Simcoe County


META DESCRIPTION
Precision pool excavation for custom in-ground pools in Barrie, Innisfil, Wasaga Beach & Orillia. We dig to exact specs — clean, fast, fully insured. Get a free estimate.


Hydro / Vacuum Excavation
META TITLE
Hydro Vacuum Excavation Barrie | Safe Utility & Root Excavation


META DESCRIPTION
Hydrovac excavation services in Barrie & Simcoe County. Non-destructive digging safe around buried utilities, tree roots & sensitive infrastructure. Call today.


Lot Grading — Final & Subgrade
META TITLE
Lot Grading Barrie | Final Grade & Subgrade Simcoe County


META DESCRIPTION
Municipality-compliant lot grading, final grading & subgrade preparation across Barrie, Orillia, Innisfil & Wasaga Beach. Licensed operators, grade certificates available.




4.  Keyword Strategy — Primary, Secondary & Long-Tail
Organized by intent and priority. Use these throughout your page copy, headings (H1/H2/H3), image alt text, and URL slugs. Do NOT stuff — use them naturally.

Primary Keywords (High Volume — Use in H1 & Meta Titles)
excavation contractor Barrie Ontario
site preparation Barrie ON
excavation company Simcoe County
grading contractor Barrie
excavation services Orillia
excavation Wasaga Beach
excavation Innisfil
lot grading Barrie
pool excavation Barrie
land clearing Simcoe County

Secondary Keywords (Medium Volume — Use in H2, Page Body)
residential excavation Barrie
commercial excavation Simcoe County
subdivision grading contractor Ontario
trenching contractor Barrie
utility trenching Simcoe County
hydrovac Barrie
vacuum excavation Orillia
backfill and compaction contractor Barrie
custom home grading Simcoe County
foundation excavation Barrie
site stripping Barrie
bulk excavation contractor Ontario
heavy civil site prep Barrie
industrial site preparation Simcoe County

Long-Tail Keywords (Lower Volume, High Intent — Use in Body Copy & FAQ)
excavation contractor for new home build Barrie Ontario
how much does excavation cost in Barrie
pool excavation contractor near Barrie ON
grading contractor for new subdivision Simcoe County
hydro excavation safe around utilities Barrie
lot clearing for new home build Orillia
final lot grading certificate Barrie
commercial site preparation contractor Innisfil
stump and debris removal before construction Simcoe County
trenching for water and sanitary lines Wasaga Beach
excavation for custom pool Barrie Ontario
subgrade preparation residential Barrie
grading sloped lot for custom home Simcoe County
vacuum excavation tree roots Barrie
site prep for multi-unit development Barrie

Geo-Modifier Keywords (Use in Location Pages & Service Pages)
excavation Barrie · Orillia · Wasaga Beach · Innisfil · Collingwood
site preparation Springwater · Angus · Essa · Oro-Medonte
grading contractor Midland · Penetanguishene · Bradford
contractor serving Simcoe County · Lake Simcoe area



5.  Hero / Above-the-Fold Copy
This is the most critical copy on your page. It must be clear, local, keyword-rich, and instantly communicate trust. Use this for your homepage/hub page hero section.

H1 TAG (Hero Headline)
Excavation & Site Preparation Across Barrie, Orillia & Simcoe County


H2 / SUBHEADLINE
From Foundation Digs to Full Subdivision Grading — We Move Earth, You Build Dreams


HERO BODY COPY
Whether you're breaking ground on a custom home in Barrie, grading a new subdivision in Innisfil, excavating a pool in Wasaga Beach, or preparing a commercial site in Orillia — our team delivers precision earthworks on time and on budget. Fully licensed, fully insured, serving Simcoe County and surrounding areas.


PRIMARY CTA BUTTON
Get Your Free Estimate Today →




6.  Service Page Copy Templates
Each service must have its own dedicated page with at least 400–600 words of unique, keyword-rich copy. Below are complete copy blocks for each of your 11 services.

Residential & Commercial Excavation
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Residential & Commercial Excavation in Barrie & Simcoe County


From single-family home foundations to large-scale commercial builds, our excavation crews are equipped to handle every depth, every scale, and every soil condition across Simcoe County. We operate a modern fleet of excavators, track hoes, and support equipment — meaning we arrive ready to work, minimize downtime, and execute your dig with precision.

We provide residential excavation for new home foundations, basement expansions, additions, and waterproofing access. For commercial projects, we handle multi-storey foundation excavations, underground parking prep, sump pits, and footings for structures of any size. Whether you're a homeowner, general contractor, or developer, we work to your spec and your timeline.

Serving Barrie, Orillia, Innisfil, Wasaga Beach, Angus, Springwater, and all of Simcoe County. Licensed and insured. Call for a free on-site estimate.

Grading for New Subdivisions
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Subdivision Grading Contractor | Multi-Lot, Road Beds & Storm Systems — Simcoe County


Developing a new subdivision in Barrie, Innisfil, or anywhere across Simcoe County demands precise mass grading executed to engineering drawings — on schedule, with no surprises. We specialize in multi-lot residential subdivision grading, road sub-base preparation, storm water management earthworks, and bulk cut-and-fill operations.

Our operators work from digital grade plans using GPS-equipped equipment to achieve precise tolerances across large sites. We coordinate with civil engineers, site supervisors, and municipal inspectors to ensure every phase passes grade approval. From initial site stripping and topsoil removal, to sub-base compaction ready for road construction — we are your single source for subdivision earthworks.

Currently active on residential subdivisions throughout Simcoe County. Contact us for large-project pricing and equipment availability.

Grading for Custom Homes & High-End Builds
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Custom Home Grading | Sloped & Complex Lots in Barrie & Simcoe County


High-end custom homes often sit on the most challenging lots — steep slopes, irregular terrain, rocky outcroppings, or tight urban infill sites. Standard grading contractors can't always handle it. We specialize in complex lot grading for custom home builders and luxury residential developers across Barrie, Oro-Medonte, Springwater, and the broader Simcoe County region.

We work directly from architectural and geotechnical plans to shape your lot for proper drainage, foundation suitability, and curb appeal. Precision matters: a poorly graded luxury lot creates drainage problems, foundation risks, and costly re-work. We get it right the first time. Services include rough grading to grade stakes, finish grading after construction, and site reshaping to match landscape design intent.

Pool Excavation & Digging for Custom Pools
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Pool Excavation Barrie | Custom In-Ground Pool Digging — Simcoe County


Dreaming of a custom in-ground pool in Barrie, Wasaga Beach, Innisfil, or anywhere across Simcoe County? The excavation is the first — and most critical — step. Our pool excavation team digs to exact dimensions specified by your pool contractor or designer, ensuring clean walls, accurate depth profiles, and proper drainage management throughout the dig.

We excavate all pool types: concrete/gunite pools, fibreglass shells, vinyl liner pools, and spa combinations. We handle soil disposal, backfill staging, and access coordination with your pool installer. Tight residential backyards and lakefront properties are our specialty — we use compact equipment where needed and full-size excavators when the site allows.

Fast turnarounds, competitive pricing, and guaranteed depth accuracy. Call today for pool excavation pricing in Barrie and surrounding areas.

Trenching for Utilities, Water & Sanitary Lines
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Trenching Contractor Barrie | Utilities, Water & Sanitary Lines — Simcoe County


Accurate trenching is essential for safe and code-compliant installation of underground utilities, water mains, sanitary sewer lines, storm drainage, electrical conduit, gas lines, and telecommunications infrastructure. Our trenching crews serve residential, commercial, and municipal clients throughout Barrie, Orillia, Wasaga Beach, Innisfil, and Simcoe County.

We trench to specified depths and widths, provide proper bedding material preparation, and backfill and compact after installation. We work closely with utility contractors, plumbers, electricians, and site supervisors to keep projects moving. All trenching is completed in compliance with Ontario Building Code and TSSA requirements. We also offer vacuum excavation for locates near existing live utilities.

Site Preparation for Residential, Commercial & Multi-Unit Construction
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Site Preparation Contractor Barrie | Residential, Commercial & Multi-Unit


Before any structure goes up, the site must come down — stripped, graded, compacted, and ready for construction. We provide comprehensive site preparation services for residential builders, commercial developers, and multi-unit housing projects across Barrie, Orillia, Innisfil, Wasaga Beach, and Simcoe County.

Our site prep packages include topsoil stripping and stockpiling, rough grading to civil drawings, sub-base preparation, temporary drainage, and erosion control installation. We work from permit drawings and coordinate with your GC, civil engineer, and municipality to ensure every phase of prep meets approval standards before framing begins. No project is too large or too complex.

Lot & Land Clearing
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Lot Clearing Simcoe County | Tree, Stump & Debris Removal for New Construction


Before you can build, you have to clear. Our land clearing teams remove trees, stumps, brush, debris, and existing structures from raw land and infill lots throughout Simcoe County — from Barrie and Innisfil to Wasaga Beach, Orillia, and beyond. We handle lots of any size, any vegetation density, and any terrain.

Services include full tree felling and removal, stump grinding and extraction, brush and debris clearing, site stripping of topsoil and organic material, and grubbing of root systems. All cleared material is hauled off site or processed on site per your preference. We leave you with a clean, stripped lot ready for grade and construction. Contact us for clearing estimates — we typically provide same-week quotes.

Hydro / Vacuum Excavation
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Hydro Vacuum Excavation Barrie | Non-Destructive Digging Near Utilities & Roots


When you can't afford to cut a gas line, sever a fibre optic cable, or damage tree roots, hydro vacuum excavation (hydrovac) is the only safe option. We provide hydrovac services throughout Barrie, Orillia, Simcoe County, Wasaga Beach, and Innisfil for utility locates, daylighting underground services, potholing, and precision excavation around sensitive infrastructure.

Our vacuum excavation process uses pressurized water to break up soil, which is then extracted via industrial vacuum into a debris tank — leaving buried utilities 100% intact and visible. This method is increasingly required by utilities, municipalities, and engineers for all work within utility corridors. We also use hydrovac for tree root exposure during landscaping and arborist work, and for tight-space excavation where mechanical equipment cannot access.

Heavy Civil & Commercial Site Preparation
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Heavy Civil Site Prep Barrie | Industrial Parks & Commercial Developments — Simcoe County


Large commercial and industrial developments demand a contractor with the equipment capacity, project management systems, and site coordination experience to operate at scale. We provide heavy civil site preparation for industrial park developments, commercial strip malls, big-box retail pads, warehouse and logistics facilities, and mixed-use commercial projects across Simcoe County.

Our heavy civil services include mass grading and bulk earthworks, underground servicing corridors, storm water pond construction, road base preparation, retaining structure earthworks, and imported fill management. We hold appropriate WSIB and liability coverage for commercial contracts and can provide subcontract documentation packages. Contact our commercial project team for capacity and scheduling information.

Backfilling & Compaction
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Backfilling & Compaction Contractor Barrie | All Project Types — Simcoe County


Improper backfilling is one of the most common causes of foundation settlement, utility trench collapse, and drainage failures. We provide engineered backfill and compaction services for foundations, utility trenches, retaining walls, pool shells, and general site fills across Barrie, Orillia, Innisfil, Wasaga Beach, and all of Simcoe County.

We supply and place granular A, granular B, clear stone, and structural fill materials. Compaction is performed in lifts with vibrating plate compactors and drum rollers as required, with density testing available where specified by engineers. Whether you need a foundation backfilled the day after your waterproofing is done or a large commercial trench compacted to 95% Proctor — we work to the spec.

Lot Grading — Final Grade & Subgrade
H1 FOR THIS PAGE
Lot Grading Barrie | Final Grade Certificates & Subgrade Prep — Simcoe County


In Ontario, most municipalities including the City of Barrie, the Town of Innisfil, Orillia, and Wasaga Beach require a final lot grading certificate before you receive occupancy. We provide final lot grading services that meet all municipal grading plans — directing surface drainage away from structures, toward catch basins, and along approved swales.

We also provide subgrade preparation before concrete flatwork, interlock, or asphalt installation. Proper subgrade depth, compaction, and granular base application determine how long your surfaces last. Cutting corners at the subgrade stage means cracked driveways, heaving interlock, and costly repairs. Our team grades to spec, compacts to standard, and documents the work. Lot grading certificates available through licensed grading inspectors.



7.  Location Page Copy Templates
Each city page should be unique — not just the city name swapped in. Use local context, mention nearby landmarks or growth areas, and link to your service pages from each location page.

Barrie Location Page
H1
Excavation & Site Preparation Contractor in Barrie, Ontario


As one of Ontario's fastest-growing cities, Barrie is seeing unprecedented residential development, custom home construction, and commercial expansion — and that means demand for reliable, experienced excavation contractors has never been higher. We serve Barrie homeowners, builders, and developers with the full range of earthworks: foundation excavation, lot grading, pool digging, trenching, land clearing, and large-scale site preparation.

Whether your project is in South Barrie's expanding subdivisions, a waterfront lot on Kempenfelt Bay, a custom build in Ardagh Bluffs, or a commercial development along the Bayfield Street corridor — our equipment and crews are available now. Call for a free estimate on any excavation or grading project in Barrie.

Orillia Location Page
H1
Excavation Contractor in Orillia, Ontario | Site Prep & Grading Services


Orillia's growing residential communities along Lake Couchiching and the expanding commercial corridor along Highway 11 represent significant opportunities for builders — and we're the excavation contractor they call first. We provide residential excavation, pool digging, utility trenching, lot grading, and site preparation services throughout Orillia and the surrounding Severn and Ramara townships.

We understand Orillia's clay-heavy soils, seasonal ground conditions, and municipal grading requirements. Our team works year-round to keep your project on schedule. Call today for a free site visit and excavation estimate in Orillia.

Wasaga Beach Location Page
H1
Excavation Contractor in Wasaga Beach | Pool Digging, Grading & Site Prep


Wasaga Beach is one of Simcoe County's most active construction markets, with new residential subdivisions, waterfront cottages, and commercial projects driving steady demand for excavation and site preparation. The competition for quality excavation contractors here is fierce — and we're one of the few crews with both the equipment capacity and local knowledge to deliver.

We handle pool excavation for Wasaga Beach waterfront and residential properties, foundation digs, lot grading, and site preparation for new builds. Sandy soils near the beachfront and variable ground conditions inland require experienced operators — that's what we bring. Get a free quote for your Wasaga Beach excavation project today.

Innisfil Location Page
H1
Excavation & Lot Grading Innisfil | Site Preparation for Innisfil Builders


Innisfil is one of the GTA's fastest-growing municipalities, with thousands of new home lots, custom estate builds on the lakeshore, and commercial expansion near Friday Harbour and the Innisfil Beach Road corridor. We provide excavation, grading, site preparation, trenching, and land clearing across all of Innisfil — from Alcona to Churchill, Cookstown to Gilford.

We're familiar with Innisfil's grading bylaw requirements and can coordinate with the Town for lot grading approvals. Whether you're a production builder running multiple lots or a homeowner digging your dream home — call us for fast, reliable excavation service in Innisfil.



8.  Schema Markup (Structured Data)
Implementing JSON-LD schema on your website helps Google understand your business and can generate rich results (star ratings, phone numbers, service lists) directly in search results. This is one of the biggest gaps your competitors have — almost none of them use schema correctly.

LocalBusiness Schema — Paste in <head> on Every Page
<script type="application/ld+json">
{  "@context": "https://schema.org",
  "@type": "LocalBusiness",
  "name": "YOUR COMPANY NAME",
  "description": "Excavation & site preparation contractor serving Barrie, Orillia, Wasaga Beach, Innisfil & Simcoe County.",
  "address": { "@type": "PostalAddress", "addressLocality": "Barrie", "addressRegion": "ON", "addressCountry": "CA" },
  "areaServed": ["Barrie","Orillia","Wasaga Beach","Innisfil","Simcoe County"],
  "hasOfferCatalog": { "@type": "OfferCatalog", "name": "Excavation & Site Preparation Services" } }

ALSO IMPLEMENT
Add FAQ Schema to every service page using the Q&A pairs from Section 10. This can generate rich FAQ snippets in Google — taking up double the real estate in search results and pushing competitors down.




9.  Image Alt Text Templates
Every photo on your website needs descriptive alt text for SEO and accessibility. Never leave alt text blank. Use this formula: [What's in the image] + [Service] + [Location].

Image Subject
Recommended Alt Text
Excavator digging foundation
excavator digging residential foundation in Barrie Ontario
Graded subdivision lot
site grading for new residential subdivision in Simcoe County
Pool excavation in progress
pool excavation contractor digging custom in-ground pool in Barrie
Hydrovac truck on jobsite
hydro vacuum excavation truck safely daylighting utilities in Barrie Ontario
Trenching for water line
trenching contractor installing water service line in Orillia Ontario
Land clearing with equipment
lot clearing and land clearing for new home build in Innisfil Ontario
Finished graded lot
final lot grading completed for new home in Wasaga Beach Simcoe County
Backfill compaction work
backfill and compaction on residential foundation Barrie Ontario
Commercial site prep
commercial site preparation and mass grading in Simcoe County Ontario
Before/after clearing
before and after land clearing for custom home build in Barrie Ontario
GPS grade equipment
GPS-equipped excavator performing precision grading for subdivision Barrie
Team on jobsite
excavation crew and equipment on commercial site in Simcoe County Ontario




10.  FAQ Content (Schema-Ready)
Add an FAQ section to each service page. These answer common Google searches, support FAQ schema markup, and address buyer objections before they can turn away.

General Excavation FAQs
Q: How much does excavation cost in Barrie, Ontario? A: Excavation costs in Barrie vary based on depth, soil conditions, site access, and project scope. Residential foundation digs typically range from $3,000–$15,000+. Pool excavation runs $2,000–$8,000 depending on size. We provide free on-site estimates — contact us for accurate project pricing.

Q: Do you need a permit for excavation in Barrie or Simcoe County? A: Most structural excavation (foundations, septic, large grading) requires permits through the City of Barrie or relevant municipality. We advise clients on what's required and can coordinate with inspectors. Utility trenching requires locates through Ontario One Call (1-800-400-2255) before any dig.

Q: What areas do you serve? A: We serve Barrie, Orillia, Innisfil, Wasaga Beach, Angus, Springwater, Essa, Oro-Medonte, Collingwood, Midland, Bradford, and throughout Simcoe County. Contact us to confirm availability for your location.

Q: How long does excavation take for a new home? A: A standard residential foundation excavation in Barrie typically takes 1–3 days depending on size, soil conditions, and site access. We'll give you a timeline estimate during our free on-site visit.

Q: What is hydro vacuum excavation and when is it required? A: Hydrovac (hydro vacuum excavation) uses pressurized water and vacuum to expose buried utilities without mechanical damage. It's required — and often mandated — when excavating within utility corridors. We offer hydrovac services for utility locates, potholing, and sensitive digging throughout Simcoe County.

Q: What is a lot grading certificate and do I need one? A: A lot grading certificate confirms your property drains according to the approved municipal grading plan. Most municipalities in Simcoe County require it before issuing occupancy permits. We perform final lot grading and can refer you to licensed inspectors for certification.



11.  Trust Signals & Conversion Elements
These website elements directly increase the number of visitors who convert into leads. Competitors are largely missing most of these.

Must-Have Trust Elements
Google Reviews Widget: Embed your live Google rating on the homepage and every service page. Aim for 20+ reviews before launch. 4.8+ stars with recent reviews significantly increases call volume.
Licensed & Insured Badge: Display your WSIB clearance certificate number, liability insurance amount ($2M+), and any trade licenses prominently in the header and footer.
Years in Business / Projects Completed: Social proof numbers like '15+ Years in Business' and '500+ Projects Completed Across Simcoe County' build immediate credibility.
Before & After Photo Gallery: Organize by service type. Real job site photos outperform stock photography by 3–5x for trust. Caption every photo with location and service type.
Free Estimate CTA (Everywhere): Every page needs a visible, above-the-fold call to action. 'Get Your Free Estimate' with a phone number and a short form. Do not hide the phone number.
Project Map or Service Area Map: An interactive map showing your service area builds local trust and helps with local SEO. Mark completed projects if possible.
Video (Optional but High-Impact): A 60–90 second video of equipment on a real Barrie or Simcoe County job site — even shot on a phone — dramatically increases time-on-page and conversion rate.
Response Time Promise: 'We respond to all estimates within 24 hours' or 'Same-Day Estimates Available' — set expectations and build urgency.



12.  Google Business Profile Optimization
Your Google Business Profile (GBP) is often the first thing a local searcher sees — before your website. Optimizing it is free and one of the highest-ROI tasks in local SEO.

GBP Optimization Checklist
Business name: Use your exact registered name — do NOT keyword-stuff (e.g. 'ABC Excavation | Barrie Grading Contractor' is against Google policy)
Primary category: 'Excavating Contractor' — this is the most important GBP field
Secondary categories: Add 'Land Clearing Service', 'Site Preparation Contractor', 'General Contractor'
Service area: List all cities — Barrie, Orillia, Wasaga Beach, Innisfil, Simcoe County, Angus, Springwater, Collingwood, Midland, Bradford
Services tab: Add all 11 services individually with descriptions. Use keywords naturally in each description.
Business description (750 chars): Write a keyword-rich paragraph mentioning key services and all city names. Include a CTA.
Photos: Upload 20+ real job site photos. Add geo-tagged photos (use GeoImgr app before uploading). Include equipment, completed projects, before/after.
Posts: Publish a Google Post every 1–2 weeks — project completions, seasonal tips, service highlights. Posts with photos perform better.
Q&A section: Pre-populate with your FAQ questions and answers (from Section 10). This content is indexed by Google.
Review response: Respond to every review — positive and negative — within 48 hours. Use keywords in your responses naturally.
UTM tracking: Add UTM parameters to your website link in GBP to track traffic from your profile in Google Analytics.



13.  Blog & Content Strategy
Competitors have almost zero content marketing. A basic blog targeting question-based searches can drive significant organic traffic and establish authority with no ad spend.

Recommended Blog Post Topics
'How Much Does Excavation Cost in Barrie Ontario? (2025 Pricing Guide)' — Targets one of the highest-volume searches in your market
'Do I Need a Grading Certificate in Barrie? What Homeowners Need to Know' — Targets new home buyers, high local intent
'Pool Excavation in Barrie: What to Expect From Start to Finish' — Targets pool season searches
'Hydrovac vs Traditional Excavation: When Do You Need Hydro Excavation?' — Educational, targets mid-funnel searchers
'New Subdivision Development in Simcoe County: What Grading Work Happens First?' — Targets developers and builders
'Land Clearing for a New Home Build: What Gets Removed and Why' — Targets new home buyers
'Final Lot Grading in Innisfil: Municipality Requirements Explained' — Hyper-local, very low competition
'Trenching for Underground Services: What Homeowners Need to Know' — Educational, addresses common questions

CONTENT TIP
Publish one blog post per month minimum. Each post should be 800–1,200 words, include at least one relevant image with proper alt text, link to your service pages, and end with a CTA to get a free estimate.




14.  Technical SEO Checklist
These technical elements ensure Google can properly crawl, index, and rank your pages. Most local contractor sites fail on several of these.

Technical Item
Why It Matters
Mobile-responsive design (required)
60%+ of local searches happen on mobile. Non-mobile sites rank lower and convert poorly.
Page speed < 3 seconds
Every 1s delay reduces conversions ~7%. Use WebP images, lazy loading, and a CDN.
HTTPS/SSL certificate
Required for Google trust signals and browser security warnings.
XML sitemap submitted to Google Search Console
Ensures all pages are discovered and indexed quickly.
Canonical tags on all pages
Prevents duplicate content issues, especially on location/service combo pages.
Robots.txt configured
Ensures staging pages and thank-you pages are blocked from indexing.
Google Search Console verified
Monitor indexing, errors, and keyword performance for free.
Google Analytics 4 installed
Track which pages drive calls and form submissions.
Click-to-call phone number
Mobile visitors should be able to call with one tap. Use tel: link format.
NAP consistency (Name/Address/Phone)
Your business name, address, and phone must be identical on your website, GBP, and all directory listings.
Core Web Vitals passing
Google measures LCP, FID, and CLS. Use Google PageSpeed Insights to audit.
Internal linking between service and location pages
Helps Google understand your site structure and distributes ranking authority.




15.  Priority Action Plan — Quick Wins First
Not everything needs to happen at once. Here is a prioritized order of implementation to get ranking results as fast as possible.

Month 1 — Foundation
Optimize Google Business Profile (Section 12) — Fastest ROI, zero cost
Build and publish main hub page + all 11 service pages with full copy from Section 6
Implement meta titles and descriptions from Section 3 on all pages
Add LocalBusiness + Service schema markup from Section 8
Upload 20+ geotagged real job photos to website and GBP

Month 2 — Local Expansion
Build all 5 location pages (Section 7) — Barrie, Orillia, Wasaga Beach, Innisfil, Simcoe County
Implement FAQ section + FAQ schema on all service pages
Submit to local directories: HomeStars, Houzz, YellowPages, BBB, TrustedPros
Begin Google review generation campaign — ask every completed project client

Month 3+ — Authority Building
Publish first 2 blog posts targeting pricing and local questions (Section 13)
Build backlinks from local contractor associations, builder networks, and suppliers
Monitor Google Search Console for ranking improvements and adjust content
Consider Google Local Services Ads (pay-per-lead) for additional top-of-page visibility



End of SEO Strategy Guide
Implement methodically, measure results in Google Search Console, and iterate. Questions? Revisit each section as you build out your site.

